Linux SST Release Notes
-----------------------

This release package provides an installable version of the eqnx driver 
version 4.12d for Linux systems.  The driver will run on Intel (i386),
Itanium (ia64) systems and Xeon/Athelon type systems (x86_64).

Installation
------------

Please refer to the installation notes (INSTALL.TXT) for a full directions
on installing and removing the eqnx product.  

These will usually be located at /usr/share/doc/eqnx-4.12/INSTALL.TXT.  
However, on some systems, the install notes may be located under a different
directory.

Installation notes are also available on the Equinox web-site: www.equinox.com.

Changes in 4.12d
----------------

1. Changes to comply with 2.6.36 kernels.

Changes in 4.12c
----------------

1. Changes to comply with 2.6.29 kernels.

Changes in 4.12
----------------

1. Changes to comply with kernel changes in 2.6.18 kernels:
   - UTS_RELEASE string moved from version.h to utsrelease.h
   - TTY_DRIVER_NO_DEVFS replaced with TTY_DRIVER_DYNAMIC_DEV.
2. Changes to comply with kernel changes in 2.6.18 kernels:
   - linux/config.h is no longer present.
3. Changes to comply with kernel changes in 2.6.20 kernels:
   - termios is now called ktermios in the kernel.
   - workqueue changes.  Remove unused workqueue and deferred service routine.

Changes in 4.11
----------------

1. Fix to driver unload routine which could panic with later releases.  The
   module usage count was not being kept properly.  Also fixed spin lock problem   during driver unload.
2. Support for 2.6.16 kernels.
3. Fixed problem where device files are being lost after a reboot following
   an unclean shutdown.
4. Changed build to eliminate svn files and fix for ssmkn build.
5. Fixed problem with ssmkn getting bad device file number after prelink.

Changes in 4.10
---------------

1. Added alternative kernel source path - /lib/modules/<kernel version>/build.

2. Remove extraneous "lvalue casting" in the driver which is prohibited
   by later versions of gnu gcc compiler.

3. Fix to driver "megamint" routine, which was not correctly doing hangup on
   DCD drop in 2.6 kernels.  

4. Fix copyright in eqnx.spec file.

5. Changed the package install/build process to:
   a. Determine kernel source and kernel object location if built
      in seperate locations (2.6 kernels). Otherwise, assumed that
      kernel object is in the same location as kernel source.
   b. accept the environment variables KERNELSRC and KERNELOBJ.  If
      KERNELSRC is set, it specifies the location of kernel source,
      which bypasses the tests done in the scripts and makefiles.
      If KERNELOBJ is set, it specifies the location of kernel object.
      If not set, assumed same as kernel source.

6. Change so that the RTS signal cannot be explicitly turned off when
   hardware flow control is enabled.

Changes in 4.09
---------------

1. Modification to driver start-up process.

2. Eliminate requirement to build utilities using kernel header files.

3. Modified ioctl interface routines.

4. Fixed oops problem occurring in close routine.

5. Added support for x86_64 systems.

6. Add support for kernels located in /usr/src/kenrels (RedHat ES 4).

7. Fixed multi-threading problem with xmit_buf on SST2/SST4 boards. This
could lead to system panics where xmit_buf has been deallocated.

8. Fix to write routine as a result of 2.6.10+ kernel changes.

Changes in 4.07
---------------

1. Add support for linux 2.6 kernels.

2. Add fix for SUSE 9.0 systems.

3. Minor multithreading changes.

Changes in 4.06
---------------

1. Several changes were made to fix build errors/warnings on IA64 systems.

2. Fix for SST 4P/8P boards.  Hardware flow control was not working properly.

3. Changes to comply with rpm version 4.2.

Changes in 4.05
---------------

1. The multithreading within the device driver has been redone.  This should
   reduce system overhead on multi-processor systems.  

2. Fixed a system oops that could occur when null pointers are being
   accessed while the device driver is being initialized.

3. Modified the driver and utilities to use a common table that is used to
   identify and characterize a board based on its id.

4. The installation script and kernel makefiles would print a warning if
   CONFIG_SMP is not configured in the kernel source to match running
   kernel.  Since this warning was being ignored, it is now a fatal error.

5. Fixed test for CONFIG_MODVERSIONS to ensure kernel source matches running
   kernel.

6. Emphasize during installation that a kernel build from the same kernel 
   source used to build the driver is recommeded prior to installation.

7. Changes made to comply with redhat 8.0 and rpm version 4.02.  These are
   all build and install issues.

8. Fixed an oops in megaparam that could occur while doing a port hangup.

Changes in 4.04
---------------

1. Provide fix for oops condition caused by checking termios structure
   for a port.  However, this was dependent on the tty structure being
   present, which may not be the case.

2. Add support for the SST-4P Universal Low Profile board.

3. Fix warnings when building ssdiag.

4. Remove bogus rev id check in ramp services, which would fail with next
   generation SSP.

Changes in 4.03
---------------

1. The RPM packaging was modified to conform to standard "good RPM practices".
   As a result, the RPM is now distributed as a source RPM.  The installation
   procedures have changed.  Refer to the install notes.

2. The ISA Memory slot address was incorrectly set to 0xb0000, which meant
   that ISA cards could only be used if 16K memory was unused and available
   at this address.  The address will now be determined dynamically by the
   driver in the range 640KB to 1MB.

3. The driver routine to locate an available 16K ISA memory slot (between 640KB
   and 1MB) was unreliable and would often report erroneously that no slots
   were available.  This has been corrected.

4. Provides a fix for ISA boards.  With the previous release, 4.01, the
   majority of the ports would be initialized incorrectly and would
   not operate correctly.

5. Additional checks were put in for the "Atmel state work-around" that 
   was implemented in release 4.01.  Additional register checks and lmx
   product id consistency checks are done to validate that the board is
   in a stable state before going "online".

6. Provides a fix for MIM/CMX boards.  With the previous release, 4.01, these
   board pairs would not go online.

7. Removes a check in the open logic that disallows the use of standard
   serial devices for RS422 ports.  The standard devices are all that is
   available at this point and this test was useless anyway.

8. Under certain conditions, output hardware flow control could be incorrectly
   turned off.  This could happen if a port is opened, HW flow control is 
   enabled and then the port is reopened.

9. System validation and check is now done prior to the build/install on the
   target system:
	* kernel source must be installed (if not, exits with error)
	* version.h + config.h must be present (if not, exits with error)
	* kernel source version must match version of running kernel
	  (if not, a warning is printed)
	* SMP configuration from kernel source must match running kernel
	  (if not, a warning is printed)
	* MODVERSIONS configuration from kernel source must match running
	  kernel (if not, a warning is printed)
						        
10. When the external power supply to a port module(s) is turned off and on, 
    there may be a fluctuation of the Ring Clock On signal.  A "debounce"
    functionality was added to the driver so that port modules are not enabled
    until the fluctuation has terminated.  Otherwise, it is possible that port
    registers could be in an invalid state resulting in input/output errors.

11. The sstty commands to enable/disable hardware and software flow control
    ("sstty [-+]rts" and "sstty [-+]ixon") did not always work and even if 
    they did the termios flags were not modified to indicate the correct
    state.  As a result, a subsequent stty would erroneously report the
    state of "crtscts" and "ixon".

12. The "quiet" option (-q and +q) was added to the sstty command.  When the
    quiet option is enabled, ring configuration messages are suppressed (such
    as the messages displayed when port modules are added or removed).

13. The driver is installed in the appropriate place depending on Linux
    kernel:
	2.2 kernel: /lib/modules/<kernel version>/char/eqnx.o
	2.4 kernel: /lib/modules/<kernel version>/kernel/drivers/char/eqnx.o
